---
layout: page
title: Research Paper Reflection
---

I read Community Technology and Community Building: Early Results from the Creating Community Connections Project. The research conducted in this paper was performed for Camfield Estates–MIT Creating Community Connections (MIT CCC)and written by Randal Pinkett. This project was a community building effort for the Camfield Estates sector of Roxbury, MA, a lower-middle class suburb of Boston. In this project, a series of programs were implemented to jumpstart a community, including educational programs, community-building activities, and and an array of technology to support this cause. The paper broke down its theories and methodologies for community building, specifically using “sociocultural constructionism and an asset-based approach to community technology and community building” (Pinkett). This project ran from January 2000 to January 2003. Over this period of time, MIT CCC held educational technology classes in a series of phases, each getting more community-specific from the previous. In these educational technology classes, community members would learn how to use computers and basic software programs, but also how to use the community-specific website, Creating Community Connections (C3). According to the paper, C3 was supposed to be the digital platform that supported a community. The paper broke C3 down into a series of modules, different plug-ins that could support different features that lived on the website. In Camfield Estates, it was surveyed that the most prioritized modules were resident profiles, business and organization database, geographic information system (GIS) maps, calendar of events, discussion forums, news and announcements, e-mail lists, chat rooms, file storage, and site-wide search. Before, during, and after all the phases, multiple surveys and interviews were conducted to measure community building success. The overall key success metrics were community social capital and community cultural capital. Some quantitative metrics that were used to measure the success of the key metrics mentioned before were number of locals a community member could name, how many email contacts of that community member were local, etc. At the end of the study, it was revealed that both community social capital and community cultural capital increased a statistically significant amount. Although a lot of the concepts in this paper seem nebulous to me, I am also not a sociology major and cannot speak for the success measured by those metrics. From what it sounds like, this project was successful, but my only concerns are that this project required a significant amount of an outside party’s effort, so I am not sure of the continued success of this community. 

I chose to read this research paper because a2a is also a tool that is supposed to provide a platform to support a community, but in general is technology geared towards building a community as well. It was particularly interesting reading about this project’s own digital platform, C3, and how it compared to a2a, specifically the ‘modules’ in C3 and the workflows in a2a we chose to facilitate (direct messaging, forum, event discovery, etc.). It is also interesting how important active third party participation was necessary to facilitate community building in this project, and makes me wonder if a2a would need as big of an onboarding process. It definitely would help with the building of the community for certain, but alas we do not have the time or resources to do so.  
